statement now from the Palestinian
president mmud Abbas he's released a
statement online saying he strongly
condemns the assassination uh as a
cowardly act and a dangerous development
he also called on Palestinians to unite
and be patient and steadfast in the face
of Israeli occupation Al jaer nuro joins
us live again from rala that's in the
occupied West Bank so no we've got that
response um from the Palestinian
president marad Abbas tell us a bit more
about what he's been saying uh and and
and the official PA
response yes well the Palestinian
president uh wasting no time to issue
that statement calling this a cowardly
act a political assassination and also
treating uh isma Han as a senior um
National political figure not just as a
senior figure or the head of the Hamas
political Wing we heard those same uh
sentiments echoed by the Secretary
General of the pl's executive committee
hin and we also heard from all
Palestinian factions declaring a general
strike across the occupied uh West Bank
this is a moment uh where you know all
political differences are set aside and
Palestinians who've seen and experienced
political assassinations in the past
decades know very well that uh targeting
or singaling out one faction does not
mean that anyone is immune and they've
seen that uh work out you know play out
uh
throughout the past decade so a moment a
very somber moment very um sad moment
for Palestinians the public opinion here
views is Han as a very prominent very
influential political figure one that
represents a you know a a front a
different front from the more
acquiescent the more willing to talk a
um and perhaps even you know be
subjected to outside dictates the
expectation
of course is that this attack this
assassination would give rise and would
strengthen the more Hardline positions
in Palestinian politics Palestinians see
that Israel has a zero some approach to
the events going on right now and to the
war in Gaza they are not just targeting
military figures in Gaza they're
targeting the head of the Hamas movement
someone who's known to be a purely
political figure someone who's known to
be pragmatic willing to talk trying to
open Pathways to dialogue around the
world uh visiting various capitals we've
already heard from the foreign Ministry
of turkey and uh Russia commenting about
this uh assassination so that gives you
an idea of the kind of Engagement is Han
had on the world stage as well yeah no
and it's important um you talking about
the issue of Palestinian Unity at this
at this specific moment abas talking
about Palestinians coming together
putting political differences aside for
now anyway I mean so so how significant
is his death then and what does this
mean then for Palestinian Unity given
those divisions that you've talked about
between Hamas and
fat well it would present an opportunity
uh one might dare say for Palestinian
factions to find a different path
forward we know that over the past 17
years Palestinian factions have failed
to uh put aside their differences to
reach a Unity agreement and to unify
their political system there was a
recent attempt in Beijing uh a
declaration was issued about the need to
form a consensus government and to work
towards um holding elections and and
renewing the Palestinian political
system uh once the war on Gaza is over
but there was very little expectation
that that declaration would be
translated into action this assassin
might give all all actors an opportunity
to kind of move forward and rise to the
occasion uh uh if you will of course
everybody has to wait for the mechanisms
within Hamas to kick uh uh to come into
play to replace uh through their own
mechanisms is hania the head of the
political the polit bureau the political
wing of the movement uh but certainly an
opportunity for a different path forward
no let me get a final thought from you
um because I think this kind of
encompasses all of what we've been
talking about all morning I mean despite
the political differences does this do
you think Harden the resolve of
Palestinians across the occupied
territories Gaza and the West
Bank yes you know one of the ironies of
the Palestinian of Palestinian politics
is that politicians are fractured public
opinion and the public wider public
isn't there is consensus among
Palestinians that the Only Way Forward
is Unity that the only way forward is to
defend against what Palestinians view as
an existential Threat by Israel by way
of either genocide direct genocide in
Gaza or ethnic cleansing and land grab
here in the occupied West backck and c
and certainly the barring of the right
of return for Palestinians in Exile so
um that's why I was talking about an
opportunity for politicians to kind of
redeem themselves and join the and file
of Palestinian public opinion that wants
to see a unified political system you
know in confrontation uh or in defense
uh uh for of Palestinian existence and
and in defiance of the Israeli agenda
that seems to only want absolute
surrender from Palestinians rather than
dialogue or a political solution at this
point all right nor de live for us there
uh in rala in the occupied West Bank no
for now thank you
will make sure to subscribe to to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaer